## Target capabilities of AICOR robot agents 

FigureÂ [1.10](#img:robot-agents) illustrates the cognitive capabilities of
the robot agents we investigate in this textbook. These include robot
agents that can accomplish tasks in a generalized manner, for example,
transporting any object from any place to any destination, given they
have the bodily capability to do it; robot agents accomplishing complex
manipulation tasks requiring them to understand how the world works in
order to act successfully in it; robot agents that learn novel task
variations by reading instructions and watching instruction videos,
requiring to recognize and understand task-critical motion patterns;
finally, robot agents accomplishing joint tasks with humans requiring
them to negotiate, infer, and satisfy shared task interpretations.

The highlighted robot agents encompass a spectrum of tasks, each
demonstrating varying degrees of complexity and cognitive capabilities.
First, we delve into the realm of a robot agent engaged in human-scale
everyday transportation tasks, such as the nuanced activities of setting
and cleaning a table. This example illustrates the adaptability and
dexterity required for robots to seamlessly integrate into common
household activities.

<figure id="img:robot-agents">
<img src="Ch01/06-evolution-robot-agents.png" style="width:100.0%" />
<figcaption>The focus of this book are robot agents, that is robot
control programs that can be best understood by being attributed with
beliefs, goals, and intentions and that have a substantial degree of
autonomy that gives them robustness, flexibility, and
goal-directedness.</figcaption>
</figure>

Moving to the domain of meal preparation, our exploration extends to a
robot agent tasked with accomplishing simple yet intricate meal
preparation tasks. Here, the focus is on manipulating and altering the
physical state of objects and substances, demanding a fine-tuned
coordination of robotic actions and reasoning about the consequences of
actions.

Taking a leap into more advanced capabilities, the book delves into
robot agents that can learn novel variations of manipulation tasks by
leveraging external sources, such as web pages like WikiHow and
instructional videos. This underscores the robot's ability to acquire
new skills and knowledge autonomously and thereby evolve it's
understanding of how the world works and how to successfully act in it.

The pinnacle of complexity within the book's scope lies in the
exploration of robot agents capable of joint manipulation tasks
alongside humans in human-scale everyday scenarios. This entails a
unique set of challenges, requiring the robot agents to discern and
fulfill human intentions rather than relying solely on pre-programmed or
learned instructions. The emphasis here is on collaborative and adaptive
behavior, showcasing the potential for robots to engage in cooperative
tasks within real-world environments.

Throughout the book, we will dissect and analyze these diverse robot
agents, exploring the intricacies of their control systems, learning
mechanisms, and adaptive decision- making processes.