## The AICOR virtual research, education, and training building 

The AICOR learning environment provides a digital platform specifically
designed to study, conduct research, and work in the field of AI-powered
and cognition-enabled robotics. At the core of this platform is the
AICOR Virtual Building (AICOR ViB), as illustrated in
Figure [1.11](#img:aicor-vib). AICOR ViB, a digital hub, serves the dual
purpose of research and education, offering virtual tours and
interactive experiences within the domain of AICOR.

<figure id="img:aicor-vib">
<img src="img/Ch01/virtual-research-building.png" style="width:92.0%" />
<figcaption>AICOR virtual research and training building.</figcaption>
</figure>

AICOR provides a comprehensive and immersive learning and research
environment, which includes the following components:

-   An **education floor**, which contains various learning resources:

    -   the [EASE learning hub](https://learning-hub.ease-crc.org/)
        provides

        -   a collection of [video
            lectures](https://learning-hub.ease-crc.org/lectures) on
            selected topics in cognition-enabled robot manipulation held
            by leading experts in the field

        -   several [virtual
            tutorials](https://learning-hub.ease-crc.org/tutorials) on
            software components of AICOR robots

        -   [information for the resident
            students](https://learning-hub.ease-crc.org/bremen-students)
            at the University of Bremen.

    -   several virtual research laboratories facilitating
        research-oriented education and training such as the

        -   [household transportation task
            lab](https://vib.ai.uni-bremen.de/page/labs/domestic-object-transportation-laboratory/)
            investigating cognition-enabled robot agents accomplishing
            transportation tasks in human environments

        -   [meal preparation lab](???) investigating how to design and
            realize generalized robot plans for categories of everyday
            manipulation tasks, such as cutting, pouring, whisking,
            wiping, etc. The focus is on designing plans that can
            accomplish a task on any object or substance, with any tool,
            for any purpose, and in any context.

        -   [actionable knowledge graph lab/ robot skill and competence
            acquisition
            lab](https://vib.ai.uni-bremen.de/page/labs/actionable-knowledge-graph-laboratory/)
            combines web-based abstract knowledge acquisition with
            embodied self-programming and learning to learn to acquire
            new task variations

    -   David Vernon's comprehensive resources with a
        [Wiki](http://www.vernon.eu/wiki/Cognitive_Robotics_Resources)
        providing a large set of excellent pointers into the field. Most
        notable are

        -   a link to David Vernon's [course on cognitive
            robotics](http://www.vernon.eu/cognitive_robotics/index.htm)

        -   a link to David Vernon's [course on artificial cognitive
            systems](http://www.vernon.eu/ACS.htm) accompanying his
            [textbook](http://www.vernon.eu/ACS.htm) with the same tile

Within AICOR ViB, digital twins of actual robotics research laboratories
are available. These virtual environments provide an opportunity for
engaging in practical exercises that are in direct correlation with the
textbook's material. The platform allows students to customize their
learning experience by selecting a robotic task, choosing a robot, and
defining the operational environment. This level of user interaction
makes AICOR ViB a functional tool for academic pursuits in AI-powered
and cognition-enabled robotics.

During a visit to a ViB laboratory, users can select a task, a robot,
and an environment for the robot's operation. The selected components
are integrated into a software container[^2], which can be downloaded
and utilized on a personal computer or operated in the cloud. Access to
the open-source code of the robot control systems is available in these
virtual research laboratories. The laboratories, involving robots,
environments, and tasks, are represented as knowledge bases, making them
understandable and interpretable by machines. Additionally, experimental
data from sessions are automatically recorded and can be interactively
analyzed using the openEASE web-based knowledge service, enhancing the
reproducibility of research. AICOR ViB thus provides a powerful
infrastructure suitable for a range of academic activities, including
software projects, thesis research, and participation in robotics
competitions like RoboCup@Home.

<figure id="img:aicor-textbook">
<img src="img/Ch01/interactive-textbook.png" style="width:92.0%" />
<figcaption>The AICOR interactive textbook.</figcaption>
</figure>

In conjunction with studying the book chapters, different forms of
interactive learning materials are accessible, as depicted in
Figure [1.12](#img:aicor-textbook). These resources include video lectures
and tutorials offering detailed insights that complement the written
content. Moreover, game-like environments are available where users can
embody a robot avatar to undertake manipulation tasks. Users also have
the opportunity to query and interact with the knowledge bases of robots
and robotic experiments, facilitating the visualization of answers, data
compilation for machine learning training sets, and the execution of
programming exercises. These exercises provide a practical context to
validate the efficacy of solutions, extending to complete robot control
programs and real robotic systems.

As a student you have a digital desktop for managing all your learning
activities. The desktop provides access to the courses you are taking,
the exercises you have to complete, the literature you have collected,
and your thesis research. The desktop is connected to learning
management system, which in our case is Moodle (Modular Object-Oriented
Dynamic Learning Environment). The learning management system serves as
a platform for educators to create and manage courses online, providing
tools to facilitate both asynchronous and synchronous learning. Features
of the learning environment include the ability to post and organize
course content, conduct quizzes and assessments, manage enrollments, and
facilitate communication through forums, chats, and messaging systems.